---
layout:     post
title:      "1.7 Recap of class 1"
subtitle:   "A recap of the lessons in class 1"
date:       2015-05-04 12:00:00
author:     "Dcycle"
header-img: "img/post-bg-01.jpg"
class:      "1"
parent:     "<a href=\"/class-01-basics\">Class 1: Basics</a>"
---

A look back at class one
-----

In the lessons of class one, we learned the basics of web development. Perhaps you are surprised that we did not look into control statements, PHP, HTML, Javascript and CSS in-depth. Although those are all very important build websites, there are many good online resources available already; that's also what people learn in school.

As a web professional, I have noticed that there are already many people who have a solid understanding of the technologies; few, however, focus on the big picture of development methods, working in teams, and best practices generally. I believe an understanding of best practices can be beneficial, and the technical knowledge will follow.

In fact, I tend to do things in the reverse order of what I have normally seen. In many cases, developers coming out of school learn things in the following order:

 * At school, they learn PHP, Python, HTML, and other **technology basics**.
 * In the workforce, they learn Git and **version control**.
 * After a few years of frustration, they move to **automated testing**.
 * Realizing that automated tests are good, but no one ever runs them, they move to **continuous integration**.
 * Later, they get caught up in environment-specific problems which wind up eating more than half their work time. This is when they move to **DevOps and tools like Vagrant and Docker**.
 * At some point when they are victims of major security breach, they learn some **security basics**.

I have developed the Dcycle course with the opposite approach: I believe much time and talent is wasted by learning the technical stuff first. This course will take a reverse approach:

 * You have already learned the **security basics**, a first stab at **version control**, and **Docker**.
 * Very soon we will touch on **continuous integration** and **automated testing**.
 * Later on, we will learn advanced **version control techniques**.

We will barely touch programming itself, for a few reasons:

 * If you're interested, you can find numerous books on PHP, HTML, MySQL, etc.
 * You are likely to work with people who are already very knowledgeable about the technology.
 * The shortage in the labor market right now is in project managers who understand best practices, and that is where we will focus all of our energy.

Recap
-----

Before moving on, then, here are a few sample tasks you should be able to accomplish and questions you should be able to answer:

 * Fork a Jekyll project on GitHub and host it locally.
 * Communicate with someone in an encrypted way.
 * Provide your public SSH key.
 * List running containers on your CoreOS VM.
 * If you are stuck, efficiently search for, and request, help online.
